docs: rewrite README.md (#284)
nvim-neorg/neorg: README.md

<div align="center">

<img src="res/neorg.svg" width=300>

> # Neorg

Reviewer: Please revert this change.

<a href="https://neovim.io"> ![Neovim](https://img.shields.io/badge/Neovim%200.6+-green.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=neovim) </a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/T6EgTAX7ht"> ![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-7289da?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord) </a>
<a href="/LICENSE"> ![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%20v3-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)</a>
<a href="#wip"> ![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-WIP-informational?style=for-the-badge) </a>

_Your new life organization tool_

[Summary](#summary)
•
[Showcase](#showcase)
•
[Installation](#installation)
•
[Setup](#setup)
•
[Usage](#usage)
•
[Modules](#modules)
<br>
[Roadmap](#roadmap)
•
[Philosophy](#philosophy)

> [FAQ](#faq)

Reviewer: Why is there no separating bullet between these?

[Showcase](#showcase)
•
[Installation](#installation)
•
[Setup](#setup)
•
[Installation](#wrench-installation)
[Usage](#usage)
•
[Usage](#question-usage)
[Modules](#modules)
<br>
[Roadmap](#roadmap)
•
[Philosophy](#philosophy)
[FAQ](#faq)
•
[Contributing](#contributing)
•
[Keybinds](#keyboard-keybinds)
[Credits](#credits)
•
[Wiki](#notebook-consult-the-wiki)
[Support](#support)

[GIFS](#camera-extra-gifs)
</div>

> [Credits: Logo by Binx](#green_heart-credits)

Reviewer: This credit to Binx should not be removed.

Reviewer: I see, you created a `Credits` section. Maybe mention for Binx specifically the logo

Reviewer 2: > I see, you created a `Credits` section. Maybe mention for Binx specifically the logo
Yes I like that idea

> Neorg (_New_-_Organization_) is a tool designed to reimagine organization as you know it.

Reviewer: We should start with a catchy gif or screenshot of a fully fledged example file. Maybe similar to what [rich](https://github.com/willmcgugan/rich) does.

> Whilst those projects are amazing, it's simply not enough for us. We need our _own, better_ solution - one that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whil3 those projects are amazing, it's simply not enough for us. We need our _own and (more importantly) better_ solution - one that will
```

> _IMPORTANT_: Neorg is _alpha_ software. We consider it stable however be prepared for changes and potentially outdated documentation. We are advancing fast and keeping docs up-to-date would be very painful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__IMPORTANT__: Neorg is _alpha_ software. We consider it stable however be prepared for changes and potentially outdated documentation. We are advancing fast and keeping docs up-to-date would be very painful.
```
Should be bold _imo_

## Showcase

<details>

> <summary>A .norg file:</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>A `.norg` file:</summary>
```

>   <img width="700" alt="Capture d’écran 2021-12-29 à 10 50 59" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147649564-6f41e008-b292-4a67-84ab-82e73bc71890.png">

Reviewer: This screenshot should:

- have concealed icons
- concealed markup + links
- maybe be in zen mode? I.e. no line numbers, no line blame, no statusline, etc.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Concealing module enabled:</summary>

>   <img width="700" alt="Capture d’écran 2021-12-29 à 10 53 26" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147649784-5654009e-c4aa-4f2b-8e30-571578a313b6.png">

Reviewer: This screenshot should use the `brave` concealing mode (i.e. use the unicode word joiner rather than actual whitespace). If the above comment applies, then it may become redundant.

</details>

<details>

> <summary>Manage your life with inspired keybinds:</summary>

Reviewer: Inspired by what? Should be `vim`-inspired I guess?

  
  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 03 57](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147650852-de6b2542-39c4-44c6-a228-ded867a71d4e.gif)
</details>

<details>

> <summary>Treesitter powered editing:</summary>

Reviewer: Maybe even `treesitter powered note-taking`?

> <summary>Treesitter powered editing:</summary>

Reviewer 3: Could just be `treesitter powered`?

  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 19 01](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147652347-80daa0db-f5d5-46e7-b553-2922553c2c78.gif)
</details>

<details>

> <summary>Manage your tasks and project with GTD module:</summary>

Reviewer: Maybe also add a link to some GTD guide?

  
  - See your current projects
  
  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 27 04](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147652840-c8201380-9ce1-428c-8ce3-320dad5592c1.gif)
  
  - Create a new task
  
  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 31 19](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147653241-e8d2742c-354c-49e4-bad0-7091451c6628.gif)

  - Add informations to your tasks, and jump to them quickly
  
  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 36 16](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147653650-a4a27c59-1213-4307-b3fc-c0a0bfefaa9b.gif)
  
  And much more...

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Powerpoint-like presentations in neovim, with presenter module:</summary>
  

>   ![Enregistrement_de_lecran_2021-11-15_a_22 40 36](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147654155-c2aa728a-5c2b-4813-b3e2-fbf7e2ffd2a2.gif)

Reviewer: This screencast contains some artifacts of the dimmed code block.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>Get syntax highlighting for any language supported by NeoVim:</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Get syntax highlighting for any language supported by Neovim:</summary>
```

  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 47 59](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147657014-68573df8-0e43-4a8b-bb81-0db1c80cbbd8.gif)
</details>
</details>

<details>

>   <summary>Get completion for various items in Neorg:</summary>

Reviewer: Which completion engines do we support? Should be listed in the details here.

  ![Enregistrement de l’écran 2021-12-29 à 11 52 02](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147657095-aa51a609-5bc2-4aa4-9687-bdda6ef48860.gif)
</details>

## Installation

Neorg requires at least `0.6+` to operate.

> You can still use Neorg on `0.5.x`, however don't expect all modules to load properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can still use Neorg on `0.5.x`, however, do not expect all modules to load properly.
```

Reviewer: `load` or `work` properly?

Reviewer: Also: similar abbrevations (as in `don't`) are use elsewhere.

> You can install through your favorite plugin manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Neorg with your favorite plugin manager. For example:
```

- [Packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim):

  ```lua
  use {
      "nvim-neorg/neorg",
      config = function()
          require('neorg').setup {
              ... -- check out setup part...
          }
      end,
      requires = "nvim-lua/plenary.nvim"
  }
  ```

- [Packer (with lazyloading)](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim):

  Want to lazy load? Turns out that can be rather problematic.

>   You can use the `ft` key to load Neorg only upon entering a .norg file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can use the `ft` key to load Neorg only upon entering a `.norg` file:
```

Reviewer: Similar things elsewhere.

  - Add information to your tasks, and jump to them quickly

  ![Add information to your tasks, and jump to them quickly](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147653650-a4a27c59-1213-4307-b3fc-c0a0bfefaa9b.gif)

  And much more...

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Powerpoint-like presentations in Neovim with the presenter module:</summary>

  ![Powerpoint-like presentations in Neovim with the presenter module](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147654155-c2aa728a-5c2b-4813-b3e2-fbf7e2ffd2a2.gif)
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Get syntax highlighting for any language supported by Neovim:</summary>

  ![Get syntax highlighting for any language supported by Neovim](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147657014-68573df8-0e43-4a8b-bb81-0db1c80cbbd8.gif)
</details>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Get completion for various items in Neorg:</summary>

  ![Get completion for various items in Neorg](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5306901/147657095-aa51a609-5bc2-4aa4-9687-bdda6ef48860.gif)
</details>

## Installation

Neorg requires at least Neovim 0.6+ to operate.

> You can still use Neorg on `0.5.x`, however don't expect all modules to load properly.

Author: Hmm the tests passes on 0.6.0 and nightly. We can bump the requirements in the readme

> You can still use Neorg on `0.5.x`, however don't expect all modules to load properly.

Reviewer 4: 0.6 is the standard now, so might as well require users to be up to date. Will be less of a hassle to deal with :)

  ```vim
  Plug 'nvim-neorg/neorg' | Plug 'nvim-lua/plenary.nvim'
  ```

  You can then put this initial configuration in your init.vim file:

  ```vim
  lua << EOF
  require('neorg').setup {
      " check out setup part...
  }
  EOF
  ```

## Setup

You've got the basic stuff out the way now, but wait! That's not all. You've installed Neorg - great! Now you have to configure it.
By default, Neorg does nothing, and gives you nothing. You must tell it what you care about!

### Default modules

Neorg runs on _modules_, which are discussed and explained in more depth later on.
Each module provides a single bit of functionality - they can then be stacked together to form
the entire Neorg environment.

The most common module you'll find is the `core.defaults` module, which is basically a "load all features" switch.
It gives you the full experience out of the box.

The code snippet to enable all default modules is very straightforward:

```lua
require('neorg').setup {
    load = {
        ["core.defaults"] = {}
    }
}
```

You can see [here](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki#default-modules) which modules are automatically required when adding `core.defaults`.

> ### Treesitter

Author: Treesitter is optional for neorg to work, but it's too much required on neorg core modules. I guess we should note this to the users

> ### Treesitter

Reviewer 4: I've moved this to the installation section - you will get an incredibly mediocre experience if you don't set up treesitter, simply too many modules want it in order for you to get any serious features.

```

Having a rare occurence where the parser doesn't work instantly? Try running `:e`.

**Still not working**? Uh oh, you're stepping on muddy territory. There are several reasons why a parser
may not work right off the bat, however most commonly it's because of plugin loading order.

> Neorg needs `nvim-treesitter` to be up and running before it starts adding colours to highlight groups.

Reviewer: Resolving this. A link is now included shortly above.

Not using packer? Make sure that Neorg's `setup()` gets called after `nvim-treesitter`'s setup.

If you're on Mac and have compilation errors when doing `:TSInstall`, check out this [fix](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/issues/74#issuecomment-906627223).
It's a bit hacky - it will unfortunately stay this way until we get first-class support in the `nvim-treesitter` repository.

> Sorry!

Reviewer: https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/pull/1795 is basically ready to be merged. I think we can hold off with merging these changes until that is the case.
This means, you could also integrate the changes done in #214 into this PR.

## Usage

> We recommend reading the [spec](docs/NFF-0.1-spec.md) and familiarizing yourself with the new format 🥳

Reviewer: Speaking of the spec, it also needs a rewrite...

You can even view a summary directly in your neovim instance, by doing `:h neorg`

Simply drop into a `.norg` file and start typing!

> Or you can require the `core.norg.dirman` module, that'll help you manage workspaces:

Reviewer: This requires some more explanations:
- what are workspaces?
- what benefits do they bring, i.e. why do I need them?
- etc.

    }
    ...
  }
}
```

And just do `:NeorgStart`, and it'll open your last (or only) workspace !

Changing workspaces is easy, just do `Neorg workspace ...`

> It works now, what are the next steps ?

We recommend you add some core modules that can greatly improve your experience, such as 

- Setting up a completion engine (`core.norg.completion`)
- Using the default keybinds provided by Neorg (`core.norg.keybinds`)
- Using the concealer module, that will use icons where possible (`core.norg.concealer`)

Stay on board, we're now showing you how to add modules !

## Modules

As you surely saw previously, we loaded `core.defaults`, and recommended you loading `core.norg.dirman`.

They are called a module ! And guess what ? As time passes, we provide more and more modules to help you manage your life !

To require a module, just do:

```lua
require('neorg').setup {
  load = {
    ...
    -- Require the module with the default configurations for it
    ["your.required.module"] = { },
    -- Require the module, and override the configurations (with the "config" table)
    ["your.required.module"] = { }
      config = {
        some_option = true
      }
    }
    ...
  }
}
```

> For more information about what is a module, check out [here](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Installation#the-concept-of-modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about what a module is, check out [this](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Installation#the-concept-of-modules).
```

Reviewer: Also: is this link location still up-to-date?

> To know which configurations are provided by default for a module, just click on their link: you'll go to the module page in the [Wiki](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki).

Reviewer: This seems a little detached from the previous. Where are those links of the modules? Etc.

| [`core.norg.dirman`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Dirman)           | This module is be responsible for managing directories full of .norg files. |

<!-- TODO: What to do with core.keybinds?  -->

### External Modules

Users can contribute and create their own modules for Neorg.

To use them, just download the plugin with your package manager, for instance with Packer:

```lua
use {
    "nvim-neorg/neorg",
    requires = "the.module.name",
    ...
}
```

After that it's as easy as loading a module normally:

```lua
require('neorg').setup {
  load = {
    ...
    ["the.module.name"] = { },
  }
}
```

This is a list of external modules:

| Module name                                                                        | Description                                                                   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`utilities.gtd-project-tags`](https://github.com/esquires/neorg-gtd-project-tags) | Provides a view of tasks grouped with a project tag. Requires `core.gtd.base` |

> 

Reviewer: Let's add a sentence suggesting plugin authors to open PRs and add links to their modules here!

## Roadmap

We track a high-level roadmap, so that you can know what to expect. Just do `:h neorg-roadmap`.

To know exactly what's being worked on, just check out the [PR's](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/pulls).

## Philosophy

We think of Neorg as a plugin that will give you all the bragging rights for using Neovim. Here's how we plan to do it:

> 1. Revise the org format: we want it simple, very extensible, unambiguous. Will make you feel right at home. Org and markdown have several flaws, but the most

Reviewer: `Revise the org format` sounds like we are affiliated with it. This is not true. Instead, we are `building a file format for organization from the ground up`. Obviously we're taking inspiration from other great formats but we should stress our independence!

   notable one is the requirement for **complex parsers**.

>    I really advise checking some writeups out on how bad it can get at times.

Reviewer: First person singular is not used anywhere else and should not be used here.

Reviewer: Also: do we have some suggested writeups?

   What if we told you it's possible to alleviate those problems, all whilst keeping that familiar feel?
   Enter the .norg file format, whose [base spec](docs/NFF-0.1-spec.md) is practically complete.
   The cross between all the best things from org and the best things from markdown, revised and merged into one.

> 2. Keybinds that _make sense_: vim's keybind philosophy is unlike any other, and we want to keep that vibe.

Reviewer: We're stressing this but have not revised the keybinds yet. This should become high priority after (or even before) this PR!

   Keys form a "language", one that you can speak, not one that you need to learn off by heart.

3. Infinite extensibility: no, that isn't a hyperbole. We mean it. Neorg is built upon an insanely modular and
   configurable backend - keep what you need, throw away what you don't care about. Use the defaults or change 'em.
   You are in control of what code runs and what code doesn't run!

4. Logic: everything has a reason, everything has logical meaning. If there's a feature, it's there because it's necessary, not because
   two people asked for it.

## FAQ

The wiki is the go-to place if you need answers to anything Neorg-related. Usage, Keybinds, User Callbacks, Modules, Events?

> It's all there, so we recommend you seriously go [read it](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki)!

Reviewer: Let's also point to our Discord again.

## Contributing

You love the project and want to contribute ?

Maybe you have an idea to improve current modules, or create a new one ?

Alright, we recommend you joining our [Discord](https://discord.gg/T6EgTAX7ht) and reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details !

## Credits

Massive shoutouts go to the people who supported the project, and help out in creating a good user experience! These are:

- [vhyrro](https://github.com/vhyrro)
- [mrossinek](https://github.com/mrossinek)
- [danymat](https://github.com/danymat)
- [Binx](https://github.com/Binx-Codes/)

> - [bandithedoge](https://github.com/bandithedoge)

Reviewer: I have seen in other READMEs that the profile pics are also included in a mosaic like raster. Can we do smth similar?

## Support

A word from the creator, Vhyrro:

> Love what I do? Want to see more get done faster? Want to support future projects of mine? Any sort of support is always
> heartwarming and fuels the urge to keep going :heart:. You can support me here:

- [Buy me a coffee!](https://buymeacoffee.com/vhyrro)

> - [Support on LiberaPay](https://liberapay.com/vhyrro)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Support me on LiberaPay](https://liberapay.com/vhyrro)
```

You can even view a summary directly in your neovim instance by running `:h neorg` if you don't like reading a lot.

Next step is to simply drop into a .norg file and start typing away!

A good first step is to require the `core.norg.dirman` module, it'll help you manage workspaces.
Workspaces are basically isolated directories that you can jump between:

```lua
require('neorg').setup {
    load = {
        ["core.defaults"] = {},
        ["core.norg.dirman"] = {
            config = {
                workspaces = {
                    work = "~/notes/work",
                    home = "~/notes/home",
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Changing workspaces is easy, just do `:Neorg workspace work`, where `work` is the name of your workspace.
Note that `:Neorg` is only available when the Neorg environment is loaded, i.e. when you're
in a .norg file or have loaded a .norg file already in your Neovim session.

If the Neorg environment isn't loaded you'll find a `:NeorgStart` command which will launch Neorg and pop
you in to your last (or only) workspace.

> It works, cool! What are the next steps?

> We recommend you add some core modules that can greatly improve your experience, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you add some core modules (continue reading to find out how) that can greatly improve your experience, such as:
```

- Setting up a completion engine (`core.norg.completion`)
- Using the concealer module to enable icons (`core.norg.concealer`)

## Modules

As you surely saw previously, we loaded `core.defaults`, and recommended that you load `core.norg.dirman`.
Sooo, what are they exactly? We'll give you a brief explanation.

> Modules are basically isolated bits of code that provide a specific subset of features. They can be docked in
> to the environment at any time and can be essentially stacked together like lego bricks!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modules are basically isolated bits of code that provide a specific subset of features. They can be docked into
the environment at any time and can be essentially stacked together like lego bricks!
```

| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`core.presenter`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Core-Presenter)     | Neorg module to create gorgeous presentation slides.                        |
| [`core.norg.completion`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Completion)   | A wrapper to interface with several different completion engines.           |
| [`core.norg.concealer`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Concealer)     | Enhances the basic Neorg experience by using icons instead of text.         |
| [`core.norg.journal`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Journal)         | Easily create files for a journal.                                          |
| [`core.gtd.base`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Getting-Things-Done) | Manages your tasks with Neorg using the Getting Things Done methodology.    |
| [`core.norg.dirman`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Dirman)           | This module is be responsible for managing directories full of .norg files. |

> | [`core.norg.qol.toc`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Qol-Toc)         | Generates a Table of Contents from the Neorg file.                          |

Reviewer: Can we sort this list alphabetically?

### External Modules

Users can contribute and create their own modules for Neorg.
To use them, just download the plugin with your package manager, for instance with Packer:

```lua
use {
    "nvim-neorg/neorg",
    requires = "john-cena/cool-neorg-plugin",
}
```

After that it's as easy as loading the module it exposes normally:

```lua
require('neorg').setup {
    load = {
        ["cool.module"] = {},
    }
}
```

<details>
<summary>List of community modules:</summary>

| Module name                                                                        | Description                                                                          |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`external.gtd-project-tags`](https://github.com/esquires/neorg-gtd-project-tags) | Provides a view of tasks grouped with a project tag. Requires `core.gtd.base`        |
| [`external.integrations.gtd-things`](https://github.com/danymat/neorg-gtd-things) | Use Things3 database to fetch and update tasks instead. Requires `core.gtd.base`        |

> | [`core.integrations.telescope`](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg-telescope)     | Neorg integration with [Telescope](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim) |

Reviewer: Why is there a `core` module here?

Author: Because it's not renamed iirc. I'm afraid to rename it (because it'll stop working for users), but I think we should do it

Reviewer 4: Initially it was called `core.integrations.telescope` because it was made by our core team. Now that I think about it tho it doesn't really make sense to have it named like that lol

</details>
<br>

**You're now basically set**! The rest of this README will be additional information, so keep reading
if you care about what makes Neorg tick.

## Philosophy
Our goals are fairly simple:

1. Revise the org format: simple, extensible, unambiguous. Will make you feel right at home. Alternate markup formats have several flaws, but the most
   notable one is the requirement for **complex parsers**.
   I really advise checking some writeups out on how bad it can get at times.
   What if we told you it's possible to alleviate those problems, all whilst keeping that familiar feel?

>    Enter the .norg file format, whose [base spec](docs/NFF-0.1-spec.md) is practically complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Enter the `.norg` file format, whose [base spec](docs/NFF-0.1-spec.md) is practically complete.
```

2. Keybinds that _make sense_: vim's keybind philosophy is unlike any other, and we want to keep that vibe.
   Keys form a "language", one that you can speak, not one that you need to learn off by heart.

3. Infinite extensibility: no, that isn't a hyperbole. We mean it. Neorg is built upon an insanely modular and
   configurable backend - keep what you need, throw away what you don't care about. Use the defaults or change 'em.
   You are in control of what code runs and what code doesn't run!

4. Logic: everything has a reason, everything has logical meaning. If there's a feature, it's there because it's necessary, not because
   two people asked for it.
   If something has a more niche use case, it should be documented.

## Roadmap
We track a high-level roadmap, so that you can know what to expect. Just do `:h neorg-roadmap`.
To know exactly what's being worked on, just check out the [repo's PRs](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/pulls).

## FAQ

<!-- TODO(vhyrro): Populate with common issues -->

The wiki is the go-to place if you need answers to anything Neorg-related. Usage, Keybinds, User Callbacks, Modules, Events?

> It's all there, so we recommend you seriously go [read it](https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki)!

Reviewer: We should also point to Discord here

Reviewer 4: I decided to not do this in the end cause Contributing (the next section) also has a link to the discord in it. It feels a little aggressive cause they're both close together.
